Sometimes you'll want to repeat a test over and over again,
maybe just changing the test inputs or some other aspect of the test.
JUnit provides the annotation RepeatedTest to repeat a test many times.
The number of repetitions is fixed.
You cannot change it at runtime.
The advantage is that each invocation of a repeated test behaves like
a regular test method with full lifecycle support.
You can give a custom display name to each repetition.
This name can be a combination of a static test and dynamic placeholders.
These are the placeholders that are supported,
the displayName of the repeated test method,
the currentRepetition number, and the total number of repetitions.
You can also use one of the two predefined formats,
LONG_DISPLAY_NAME that has the format,
for example, My Test :: repetition 1 of 10, and SHORT_DISPLAY_NAME that
has the format, for example, repetition 1 of 10. By the way,
SHORT_DISPLAY_NAME is that default format if none is specified. We can
also have the repetition information available in our test, BeforeEach and
AfterEach methods by passing an object of type RepetitionInfo as a
parameter. RepetitionInfo is an interface with the method
getCurrentRepetition and getTotalRepetition.
So it's time for a demo.
Let's see how to use the RepeatedTest annotation, how to give the test a custom
display name, and how to use the RepetitionInfo interface.
I have created another test class for the RewardByGiftService.
The purpose of this test is to randomly generate product IDs
that are not going to appear in the sample order, for example
anything between 1000 and 2000.
So if I want to repeat five times the method giftProductNotInOrder, I have
to annotate it with RepeatedTest and pass the number of repetitions as an
argument of the annotation. Let's run the class.
You can see that JUnit executed the test Correct points, which is defined
in the interface TestHelper and that the method giftProductNotInOrder was
executed five times. On the right side, you can see that the message
setUp called was printed six times.
Now you have to be careful. RepeatedTest substitutes the Test annotation.
If we add a Test annotation to this method and run the
test, you can see a warning appears here.
The test is still executed five times, but another execution
generates a warning, multiple TestDescriptors.
So let's delete this Test annotation.
You can add a custom display name with the name attribute. Note
that now the number of repetitions has to be specified with the
value attribute. And there you have it.
Now if you want to use the current repetition and the total
number of repetitions inside your test method,
JUnit can inject a parameter of type repetitionInfo.
Here we can use it to get a productId. Let's run it. And yes, from 1001 to 1005.